This page is dedicated to all the research i done on Multichain. 

Multichain does not support smart contracts. But when multichain is designed for applications like permissioned blockchain use cases. 

What are features

1. Private shared databases 
2. Control of capacity + cost
3. Designated "miners"
4. No cryptocurrency
5. Collective admin
6. Hide details
7. Blockchain as tool not methodology


Multichain Use cases

1. Permissioned blockchain
      Validation by consensus, not by proof of work.
      
      What are validation by conesensus and what are those techniques? (Have to research)
      
       Every block is digitally signed by creator. 
             -- Only permissioned parties can "mine"
       
       Mining diversity for distributed consensus. 
       
       Consensus over data not by execution. 
           -- Avoid Ethereum style hardfork. 
           -- No need for fees to stop runaway code. 

2. Full Asset lifecycle
      Issuance, transfer, exchange, escrow, resissuance, redemption and destruction. 
      
3. General Storage and search
      64MB of data per transaction. 
      Streams: key-value, identity and time-series
      
 What is it flexibility?
 
 1. Permissions can change over time. 
 2. Assets: Re-issuance and destruction. 
 3. Streams: nodes follow their interest
 4. Custom metadata everywhere
 5. Unified JSON-RPC API for applications. 
 6. Many blockchain parameters. 
 
Speed and scalability

This is the most important feature we have to talk about any platform in blockchain. 

Multichain can support.. 

1. Millions of addresses, assets , streams
2. Unlimited transactions / stream items.(have to test)
3. > 1000 tps (1.0 beta 2 + mid-range server)
    -- includes signature verification + transaction processing ie Byzatine tolerance
4. Unlimited nodes in network
5. Block time as low as 2 seconds. 

Let us talk about throughput of Multichain

Bitcoin has a block time of 10 minutes and throughput of about 7 trans/sec. 
Ethereum has block time of 12 seconds and throughput of about 27 trans/sec. 

But how multichain is making block time as 2 seconds and throught put of 1000 tps?
Lets analyze

Bitcoin through put is due to block size limit of 1 MB , combined with block time of 10 minutes. 

Consider a small transaction ( 1 input, 2 outputs , all regular addresses) is about 230 bytes in size. peak throughput would be 

100000/10/60/230 = 7.25 tx/sec

Ethereum has several limits for throughput like gas amount, eth price etc., 

In Multichain, according to the development of platform block size can go upto higher as 1 GB. and block time as 2 seconds. 
So testing on real time applications would achieve that. 


It supports all commands used in Bitcoin core API. 

we will access this blockchain parameters accessing through multichain-cli command and view them. 

Take a look at the parameters given in below page. 

https://www.multichain.com/developers/blockchain-parameters/

These are present in params.dat file. 
